[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, it's James here
from Food Matters.
And I'm here with none
other than Marie Forleo.
She is an entertainer,
an energizer.
And she is here to help
lighten up your life
and give you the tools and
tips necessary to make change
in your life and in other
people's lives that you touch.
She is the founder of
"MarieTV," and also B-School.
And some of her courses
I've put my team through.
And I can testify that
this is amazing content.
I look forward to you
learning about what
she has to share today.
Hey, Marie.
>> Hi.
>> How are you doing?
>> I'm fantastic.
>> So I know you
as Marie Forleo,
the TV presenter on "MarieTV,"
hanging out with Oprah all
the time, the B-School,
amazing entrepreneur,
helping people find their
own skills as entrepreneurs.
But what was it like
being Marie growing up?
What was your life like?
Obviously, you didn't come out
of the womb already like this.
Tell me what it was like for you
being a child and growing up.
>> You know, I was always
interested in a lot of things.
I grew up in New Jersey in
a very blue collar family.
I was actually the first in
my family to go to college.
So it was a really fun life.
But I remember, every
time people would ask me,
what do you want to
be when you grow up,
there was never one answer.
There was 17.
And I always had
a very long list.
And they spanned from being
a teacher, or a dancer,
and a writer, to
business, wanting
to be a fine artist,
an animator for Disney,
a fashion designer--
across the spectrum.
And when I went to
school as an undergrad,
I studied, first, psychology.
Because I was really
interested in understanding
how to have a great life not
only for myself, but also
for my family.
So in my history, and in
terms of my familial history,
mental illness is prevalent.
And I saw so much pain
throughout growing up.
My parents got divorced.
And there were all these
issues that happened.
And it always
struck me that they
didn't have to be in pain,
that the people that I loved
didn't have to experience
that much stress,
that there didn't have to
be these breakages and all
of this love just going away.
So when I was
studying psychology,
very quickly, I
realized that it wasn't
what I wanted to do
in that framework.
I remember the very first
psychology class I took,
I walked into the lecture room,
and the professor at that time
was talking about how everything
that's wrong in your life
basically stems
from your parents.
And I was like, this is BS.
I don't like this
framework at all.
So I went and I changed
my major on the spot.
The only other thing that
interested me at that time
was business.
And so I studied business.
And when I graduated
from college,
the only job that
really interested me
was something that was active.
I was always a human
that had a lot of energy
and a lot of different
things I wanted to do,
but I couldn't see myself
sitting behind a desk.
I felt like it was a
little too restrictive.
It didn't sound exciting.
So I got myself a job on
the New York Stock Exchange,
on the floor of the New York
Stock Exchange, where there is,
at that time,
literally no seats.
So you're standing all
day long, and people
are screaming and yelling, and
it's a very exciting, energetic
place to work.
But it was about six
months into that job,
and I started having that
feeling that I think many of us
have, where you look around,
and people have success.
In that particular
form, everyone
was making millions of dollars.
But while they were
rich financially,
they were spiritually bankrupt.
And I remember the
folks that I worked
with talking about
these two weeks a year
where they would take vacation.
And that's what they
looked forward to.
And I couldn't imagine
myself spending
decades of my life
only looking forward
to two weeks out of the year.
Something felt wrong.
And I started hearing this
small voice inside that said,
this isn't what
you're supposed to do.
This is not where
you're supposed to be.
And I tried to
silence that voice,
because I graduated
from school, first
in my family to go to college.
I had debt.
Quitting this job did not
seem like a rational thing.
But as time went on, this
little voice inside just
kept getting louder and louder.
And feeling like I should
be doing something else,
but I didn't know
what that was, and it
felt kind of crazy to quit
a job when I didn't have
another job lined up or any
clue of what I was supposed
to do instead was creating
a lot of stress and anxiety
in my life.
And one day, I was on the
floor of the exchange,
and I started getting
a panic attack.
I remember telling
my boss at the time,
I'm going to go run out
and get a cup of coffee.
And he was like, fine,
go get a cup of coffee.
Come right back.
And I left the floor.
And instead of going to get
coffee, I ran to a church.
I grew up Catholic.
I went to a Catholic university.
And I sat myself down on
the steps of Trinity Church
outside the exchange and
I just started crying,
because I didn't
know what else to do.
I felt like such a loser.
I felt all of this pressure,
and fear, and uncertainty,
and self-doubt, thinking,
I have this job.
I'm getting a steady paycheck.
I should be so grateful
to have this position,
and all I want to do is quit.
And I thought I was going to be
a disappointment to my parents
and to my friends
and to everyone.
And I remember calling
my dad on my cell phone
and just bawling my
eyes out and saying,
Dad, I don't want
to disappoint you,
but I can't do this anymore.
And I don't know what
the hell I want to do,
but I've got to
do something else.
And he said something to me
that forever changed my life.
And he said, Marie,
you've worked
since you were nine years old.
You started babysitting
and selling ice cream
and working at the beach.
And you've always worked.
He's like, I'm not worrying
about paying your bills.
He goes, but you have to
find something that you love.
Because once you
find that, it's never
going to feel like work again.
So as long as it takes you to
try every different thing you
could possibly imagine,
you have to keep
searching until you find it.
So if you need to quit, I'm
not going to be disappointed.
But you have to do
this and you have
to find something you love.
And when I hung up from
my dad, I remember,
within the next week, I quit
my job and I went on an odyssey
to find what I was meant
to do in the world.
>> Whoa.
What a dad.
How lucky are you?
How many dads would say, what?
This is crazy.
You're out of control.
But that's so beautiful.
A lot of what I've heard from
people in this sort of path
to finding something that gels
more with what they're here
to do, there's this sense
of, follow your bliss,
follow your joy,
follow what you love.
When you started
this odyssey and you
started to align yourself
with what you are,
what started to
happen in your life?
>> Well, my first step
was really doing a bit
of an excavation and
asking myself, well,
what am I really interested in?
What have I always been good at?
What sounds exciting to me?
Because again, I felt paralyzed.
Because the thing that I had
just spent four years studying,
the epitome of a
job, that wasn't it.
So looking inside, I
really had two clues.
One was that I was
very interested
in the world of business.
My dad was a small
business owner,
so I understood what that was
like, growing up with him.
And the other was
art and creativity.
I had always drawn
and done fine art
and considered being an
animator for Disney or a fashion
designer.
So I was like, OK, well,
how do I mesh these two
passions around business and
small business and something
around making money?
But also, it has to be creative.
And the idea that came to
me was magazine publishing.
That was the only idea
I could come up with.
And I said, well,
there's a commerce side
and there's also
a creative side.
So I went to a headhunter,
and I said, I'll do anything.
I'll be an intern.
I'll take any level job.
Just get me in the
world of publishing.
And I got into the
ad sales department
of a magazine called "Gourmet,"
which was part of Conde Nast,
that very big magazine
publishing company.
And I remember starting
and being so excited.
I'm like, oh, this
has got to be it.
And I was thrilled to be
able to learn the business.
And I had a great boss.
And I had a great publisher.
And they were just these
powerful, strong, intelligent
women.
But about six
months in, I started
hearing that voice again.
It said, Marie, this isn't it.
And I was like, oh,
no, not this again.
No, not this again.
I was like, wait,
this has to be it.
But as time went on, the
voice got louder and louder.
It said, this isn't it yet.
And so I finally got up
the nerve and I said,
OK, I'm going to
need to quit this.
And I did a little
bit of an evaluation.
I said, maybe I'm still too
much on the business side.
Too much commerce,
not enough creativity.
So I wound up going to the
human resources department,
letting them know, to
see if there was possibly
a position that was open on the
editorial side of any magazine.
So they said yes.
They moved me over to
the fashion department
at "Mademoiselle," which was
a women's fashion magazine.
And I was like, OK,
this has got to be it.
This is going to be awesome.
I'm going to be working
with designers, and up
and coming new
business owners who
have great designs
that they want
to get in the magazine,
and photographers,
and photo shoots, and
all this kind of stuff.
This is going to be awesome.
So I started doing that job.
And little by little, I heard
that voice creeping up again.
And at this point,
I have to tell you,
I really started to
feel a sense of panic.
I started to feel broken.
I knew I had a ton
of potential in me.
I knew I was a hard worker.
I knew I wanted to
contribute to the world.
But I didn't seem to fit
in to the regular corporate
structure.
So one day I was
on the internet,
probably when I
shouldn't have been.
And I stumbled upon this
article about a new profession
at the time called coaching.
Now, this is back in 1999.
This is well before coaching
was anything in the mainstream.
And I remember
reading this article.
And something in my heart lit
up like nothing ever before.
It really was one of
those moments where
it feels like the clouds parted
and the Angels were singing
and sunbeams were
just shooting down.
And I remember
thinking to myself.
The rational part of my
brain said, life coaching--
what is that?
That sounds so cheesy.
You're 23 years old.
Who in their right mind is
going to hire a 23-year-old life
coach?
You haven't even lived life yet.
You can't even hold down a job.
So I heard all of those voices.
Yet I couldn't
deny that something
in my soul, something in my
being felt like this was right.
This was something
that was more exciting.
There was something aligned.
I had to pursue it, even
though it didn't make sense.
So I signed up for a three-year
coach training program,
and I started to do my
studies at night while I kept
my magazine job during the day.
A few months in, I get a
call from the HR department,
and they wanted to offer me a
promotion at "Vogue" magazine.
This was my fork in the road.
Do you take this
promotion, which
is more money and more prestige,
a steady paycheck, health
benefits, all of the things
that one should want when you're
getting start in your
career, or do you
quit and do this weird
thing that no one has ever
heard of called coaching and
start your own business, which
you have no idea how
to do, and you're
carrying thousands and
thousands of debt from college,
and you have to take
care of yourself?
So of course, I quit.
[LAUGHS] And I started
bartending and waiting tables
and doing every odd
job I possibly could.
Because I lived
in New York City,
which is not an
inexpensive place to live.
And I started working on
my business during the day
and just hustling my buns
off on nights and weekends
to fund this brand new business.
>> Wow.
That takes a lot
of guts, and having
that insight and that foresight
to know that something
will come of this.
'99 and 2000 until
now-- that's 18 years.
>> Yes.
>> That's what I love too.
When I go to a lot of these
private CEO conferences
and you meet John Mackey,
founder of Whole Foods,
or this guy here who's sold
this many books in not five
years, three years--
12, 15 years, 16 years.
So I love it.
So this is how long
you've been doing it.
And you've established yourself
as an expert in the space.
Tell me what's happened
in the last 10 years.
>> I always talk about that it's
not about being an overnight
success.
It's about being an
over-time success.
And whatever you want
to do in this world,
if you want to be really
good at your craft,
if you want to be
satisfied, if you
want to have a
level of experience,
it's going to take time.
And so for me, after 10 years
of really hustling hard,
and making a ton of mistakes,
and doing a lot of work
on myself, and consistently
working on my own education,
trying to find new ideas and
new ways of doing things,
and putting into practice
everything that I was learning,
I was able to create really
this beautiful business that
is completely an
expression of who I am
and the service that I hope
to provide to the world,
to give people very concrete
tools, and ideas, and concepts,
and introduce them to other
people that can help them
create a business
and life they love,
however they define that,
however success looks and feels
to them.
We have an audience
in 195 countries.
I think we're at maybe 38
million views on YouTube.
And I've been able to work
with some of my idols,
like Oprah, or Tony
Robbins, or Richard Branson.
So over the years, I recognized
that one of my greatest
abilities was to be able
to communicate with people.
I love teaching on video.
I had a part of my career
in health and fitness
where I was teaching hip-hop,
and I was a Nike elite dance
athlete, and I was creating
all these fitness videos.
And one of the things
that I loved about that
was just being able to talk
to people straight to camera,
and show them how to
do things, and have
them go from feeling
insecure and afraid
and a lot of self-doubt to
this other place of, oh,
my goodness, I can do this.
And I feel like that's
one of my superpowers.
So through our online show,
"MarieTV," every week,
we're creating content
that helps people really
take what it is that they
want to do in this world
and bring it to life.
If there's a change they
want to make in their health,
or in their relationships,
or in their financial life,
or in their mental
or emotional health,
or they want to take this
idea they have for a business
and grow it, or their
existing business
and take it to new
heights, a lot of it
comes from really simple
tools and the application
of those tools consistently.
And so many of us don't
have voices of encouragement
that are there, week after week,
guiding you and showing you
that you can actually
do something.
And so that's what we try
and do in our company.
>> Beautiful.
I love it.
Perfect.
So let's go to a
teaching, Maria.
Teach me.
I'm ready.
I'm a willing student.
And so is everyone listening.
>> Me too.
Let's think about
where people are at
and how we approach
goal-setting.
Because the first step in
personal development is,
you've got to know
where you want to go.
You've got to get clarity
about where you're at.
And then I've
interviewed people.
You've probably
interviewed them too.
One gentleman stands out
in particular, Rich Roll.
He was just living his life.
And he was a lawyer and
doing that sort of stuff.
And he was 39 and
like, what am I doing?
Do you know what I mean?
People get this sort of wake
up, like you have as well.
And they realize that maybe
the goals they've been setting
haven't been true to them.
So how can people tell if
their goals are aligned
with what they're here to do,
and if their goals are set out
of fear or out of
love of service?
And how do you sort
of coach people
through helping set goals and
line up with their purpose?
>> I think one of the keys to
setting goals that are really
going to be incredible for
you is, do they excite you?
If you look at them on
that piece of paper,
does it bring you to light?
Does it bring you joy?
Does it make you
have that little mix
of fear and anticipation.
You can't wait to
dive into them.
If not, something's
probably wrong.
So if we're setting goals out
of fear or a place of pain,
that's not necessarily bad.
We can either change
our lives from a space
of inspiration or desperation.
And so many of us hit a pain
point where we're suffering,
we're depressed.
We have hit this
place in our lives
whether it's emotionally, in
a relationship, financially,
in our careers, where
something is not working.
And we find ourselves
feeling like we're beating
our head against a wall.
If you're setting
a goal out of "I
can't take this pain anymore,"
that's not necessarily bad,
because we have to
start where we are.
But when you're
looking at your goals,
if they don't make you
want to jump out of bed,
stay up all night,
just get so fired up
about figuring out how to
bring them into the world,
then I think it's time
for some re-evaluation.
>> That's cool.
Because I think there
are goals that people
would set that look at them
and go, I need to do that.
Then they're like, I don't
feel like doing it, in a way.
>> Well, I think there's maybe
a little bit of a distinction
to make here.
There are things that we
have to do, like pay taxes.
[LAUGHS] There are
parts of our business
or our life that don't
necessarily evoke a ton of joy,
but we can bring joy to them.
And then if we're looking
at something major,
like where we want to live,
or how we want to express
ourselves through our
business or career,
or what we want our
relationship to be like,
or what we want this body
and our energy to be like,
if the vision that we set for
ourself isn't lighting us up
on fire, again, it is time to
go back to the drawing board
and rewrite that story,
rewrite that vision,
rewrite those goals so it makes
you want to jump out of bed,
so it makes you say, I
cannot wait to tackle this.
>> So a lot of the
struggles that people have--
say, they're moving
out of desperation,
or they're figuring
their life out,
and they're starting to
get these aha moments,
and they're feeling better.
But then they start
to potentially realize
that they've had
limiting beliefs
or thoughts about themselves
that have been holding them
back.
When I first learned
about limiting beliefs,
I was like, whoa.
Whoa.
Oh, my goodness.
I'm riddled with
them, as we all are.
Money doesn't grow on trees,
or you're not smart enough,
or you don't have
the connections,
or you're not from the
right part of town,
or you're too black,
or you're too white,
or you're too this or
that, or your hair's crazy.
We have so many belief
systems that are either
set up by our upbringing
or by our culture
and conditioning that could
be limiting us in a way.
What are your thoughts
on belief systems,
and how can people identify if
they're holding themselves back
through that internal language?
>> Well, our beliefs
drive everything, right?
So our beliefs are really
what drive our actions
and our behavior.
And our actions and
behavior drives our destiny.
So they are paramount.
They are really those hidden
tracks underneath our lives
that help us produce the results
that we have or we don't have.
So when it comes to
understanding whether or not
we have limiting
beliefs, one clue
is to see if there's a
recurring pattern in your life.
If there's something that
you say that you want,
but it's not a reality for
you, and it's been true
for years and years and years,
or even months and months
and months, and
you've been working
on it, that's probably
a clue that there could
be a limiting belief
under there that you
need to investigate and then
consciously work on changing.
So I think, when it comes
to limiting beliefs,
if there's any area in your
life that consistently creates
a lot of pain, a lot of stress,
a lot of struggle or anxiety,
it's a good place to peek
around and say, well,
what do I believe about this?
Do I believe that it's
possible to resolve?
Do I believe I'm worthy
of having this resolved?
I think investigating it on that
level from a place of curiosity
is step one.
Because if you're not
aware of the belief,
it's hard to change it.
Do you have any personal
limiting beliefs
that you had that you now
have a different thing about?
So for instance, I know that you
have a belief that everything
is "figure-outtable."
>> "Figure-outtable."
And I have a belief that
I've developed over time
that everything is absolutely
always unfolding perfectly.
There is some perfection
in everything,
and then you seek
to ask questions
to discover that perfection.
So give me an example
of you personally.
What are some
beliefs that you had
that you've had to potentially
evolve to or upgrade to?
Or tell me about some of the
beliefs that you currently
have, like that everything
is "figure-outtable,"
and how that's helped you
in times of challenge.
>> For most of my life, I had a
lot of limiting beliefs around
money.
And that comes from my family.
My mom grew up in poverty.
And her entire
experience of life
was, money doesn't
grow on trees.
And I just remember,
from the time
I was very small all the way
up through when I was an adult,
there was never enough
when it came to money.
And so I knew that that
was what I was steeped in.
But there was
another part with me,
from starting to learn and
understand how the world works,
that that wasn't always true.
And I felt in my
bones that there
was more than
enough to go around,
but my checkbook
didn't reflect that.
And so when I was
starting my business,
I remember it was
in the early days.
And going to write those
checks to pay rent every month,
I would get nervous,
because sometimes there
wasn't enough there.
But I was so committed
to growing this business
and breaking out of
this limiting belief.
And I've realized one thing--
that if I kept
behaving in the way
that I always
behaved in the past,
nothing was going to change.
So I thought to myself, what
if I start changing my behavior
rather than working
on the belief?
So here's what I did.
There was a coaching
program coming up
where it was a group
coaching program
and I was about to open up the
doors to have people come in.
And again, this was
at a point in my life
where money was
still very scarce
and everything was
still touch-and-go.
And I made a promise to myself.
I said, I've always
wanted my business
to be about more than just
me, more than just profits
for my own bank account.
And I don't really care that
much about material things.
I wanted it to make a
difference beyond me.
But how do I figure
out this money thing?
And I said, you know what?
No matter how many people come
into this coaching program,
I am going to make a commitment
to myself and to the universe
that I'm going to give
away 10% of the profits,
no matter what it was.
The logical part of
my mind was screaming.
There's no way.
You can't even
pay your own rent.
This is nuts.
This is not even a
wise business move.
How can you even
claim that you're
a businessperson or a
life coach if you're
doing something so silly?
Yet my heart knew it was
the right move to do.
So I made that commitment,
opened the doors.
People came through.
And I said, I'm
just going to trust.
Whatever is left at the
end, we're going to do this.
So everyone came to the program.
And that amount turned
out to be about $7,000,
which was way more than I
even had in my bank account
starting this whole crazy idea.
And the idea of giving that
away got me so excited.
And I didn't know who I
was going to give it to.
So I was looking around
for an organization
that I felt like would be
a good fit with my values.
And I've always been an advocate
for empowering girls and women.
It turns out there was a UN
initiative that was starting up
called Girl Up.
And it was all
about taking a look
at how many girls around the
world are denied an education
and doing what we can to
get them back in school.
I had gotten in touch with
the director of that program.
And she said, hey, we're having
a launch party in New York
City.
Do you want to come?
And I was like, I would love to.
And I said, by the way, I'd
like to make a donation.
And she's like,
this is incredible.
I always had a
dream of having one
of those big,
cheesy, large checks
and being able to give
it to someone else.
And I said, would you mind if
I presented you with a check,
like a big one?
She's like, that
would be amazing.
So I went to FedEx.
I got this big,
cheesy check drawn up.
I remember going on stage,
and I just started bawling.
Because I couldn't believe
that it was a mere eight
weeks ago that I didn't
know if I was going
to be able to pay my own rent.
And here I was, being able
to present a check that was
$7,000-plus to a group of young
girls who needed it way more
than I ever would.
I got on stage,
presented the check.
I walked off stage, and
someone came up to me,
and they said Marie,
that was incredible.
I want to hear more about your
work and what you're doing.
And I was like, thank you.
That's great.
And she said, I work
for Richard Branson.
And we're about to do a
trip with entrepreneurs
to South Africa with
him and we would
love to invite you to come.
I kid you not.
I started jumping up and down in
my heels right then and there.
Because he was always
one of my business idols.
And he was someone who
I had always looked
to that embodied such
creativity and such an ability
to bring joy and purpose
to all of his businesses.
And the idea that,
by following my heart
and what I knew
to be true, which
was that there was more
than enough to go around,
not just for me,
but for others, it
triggered this
domino effect of me
shifting my own limiting
belief around money.
That was actually the beginning
of my business starting
to take off.
And then it enabled me
to interact with and meet
so many other people
on this journey that
could inspire me to
continue to grow,
in terms of my generosity
and the difference
that I wanted to make.
>> That's freaking awesome.
I love that.
It's so cool.
It's so cool when you prove
yourself wrong in ways.
You're like, oh, my god.
I was totally wrong.
This is the best thing ever.
Do you think that there's
something in that ability
to give that shows you
that you have so much
more than you could imagine?
>> I do.
And I think that,
in terms of how
to change a limiting belief,
it's less about the psychology,
from my point of view, and
it's more about really flipping
old wisdom on its head.
So most of us have heard
the process of creation.
So we have thought,
then we have word,
then we have deed or action.
And that's how things
usually come to life.
But when you want to
change a limiting belief,
you have to flip that
formula and make it reverse.
You act first, then
you speak in alliance
with how you want to behave.
And then your beliefs changed.
So it's this really
cool, interesting, very
action-oriented way
to sidestep all of the
"oh, my gosh, I have so
many limiting beliefs,"
and get right to changing them.
>> So in short, if you think you
don't have enough money or you
have a limiting belief around
money, go give some away.
Speak with that.
There's enough to go around, and
I've proven it with my actions.
And then all of a sudden,
your beliefs change.
>> You do that enough and you
will absolutely change that
belief.
So one of my mantras that I've
lived by ever since I realized
that limiting
beliefs around money
were really holding me back
was, there's always more
where that came from.
So every single time,
still, when I write a check,
or I pay a bill, or
I make a donation,
or whatever I have to do
that is in terms of outflow,
there is always more
where that came from.
And you do that enough,
and it absolutely
becomes your reality.
I am one of the most
pragmatic, practical people
you will ever meet.
And so this isn't
about just saying it
and it will become true.
And there are maybe
people that believe that,
and I honor and respect it.
But for me, I'm a very
brass tacks kind of girl.
So it is about aligning
your actions in a way that's
appropriate with your
life at this moment,
and then changing your
reality from that place.
>> Beautiful.
I love it.
My dad's thing was
that he was unwell.
That's why I made food matter.
And we found this real passion
in studying food and nutrition.
With my dad getting
well, he was sick,
and he believed that only
the medical profession could
save him, and that if he took
these drugs, he would get well.
And he didn't believe his body
had an innate healing capacity.
He didn't believe that,
until it was knowledge
that helped him unlock that.
And do you think,
through knowledge,
you can also learn
to move beliefs?
Because he thought, oh,
I need to take pills.
I need to listen to doctors.
Then he saw this
information about Prozac
and how it was causing
suicidal side effects.
It's really dangerous.
He was like, this is wrong.
I'm going to get off it.
>> I think one of the other
most powerful ways that we can
change limiting beliefs is
through finding evidence
to the contrary-- so actively
looking for what else might be
true.
In the example of
limiting money beliefs,
well, if you're
struggling with money,
but other people aren't,
recognizing, OK, well,
maybe they've figured out
something that I haven't yet.
So let me go collect all
the evidence of other people
that disprove this
limiting belief.
It could be the same
thing around health--
actively, proactively
searching out
and creating a whole stack
of evidence to the contrary
is, I think, how
we can also start
to begin to change some
of those negative beliefs,
just like what you were
saying with your dad.
>> So I keep forgetting how
many people have shot this film.
You know Brendon
Burchard, right?
>> Yes.
>> He just talks
like he's a script.
It's amazing.
He's just like, bang, bang,
bang, bang, bang, bang, bang.
He's great.
And he talked about
a few funny things.
First of all, 86% of people
in the morning wake up
and the first thing they
do is check their phone.
And then they're reacting
to the whole world all day.
And it's death, pain, fire,
destruction, obviously,
on the News.
But then the other
thing is that we
got tricked into thinking
in the '80s and '90s
that material possessions are
going to bring us happiness.
And so we've structured
our entire lives
around amassing
material possessions.
And then we've got 30, 40
million people in the US
on Prozac.
Why?
And what's going on, Marie?
>> So there's a
couple of things.
Understanding the role that
the media plays in our lives,
how many advertising messages
we're all bombarded with--
and most of them are
telling us that we need
additional material things.
We need to buy this
app, or this technology,
or this new pair of shoes,
or whatever it is in order
to feel a sense of happiness.
So a lot of it has just
been conditioned into us
in our society over time.
And you look around and you
see other people wanting
to keep up with the Joneses.
We're social
creatures by nature.
We look around and we're
influenced by social proof.
So if everyone else
is doing those things,
I think that's part of where
the problem comes from.
But in terms of looking at the
state of society right now,
I think one of the biggest
things we have to look at
is how addicted we
are to our screens
and how much we've given control
over to technology, thinking
about how often we're looking
at our phones, how many times.
I think it's up to 150
per day at a minimum
that people are picking up their
phones and checking on them.
And all we're doing
is giving away
our time, our power,
and our attention.
There's no connection in
there with a real human being.
There's no connection
with nature.
We're losing connection with
our own body, our vessel,
all of the wisdom inside
that tells us whether or not
we're on track or
we're off track.
Because, again, we're
screen-sucking so much
of the time.
So apart from materialism, I
think so much of the problem,
at least right now--
and it will probably
continue-- is how
much time we're
spending looking at our
phones and looking at screens.
We weren't designed
to live this way.
So many of us live
these sedentary lives.
We're staring at a screen--
what-- eight, nine,
12 hours a day,
spending hardly any time
in nature, very little
time with our loved ones.
Even when we are
having a dinner,
how many times are kids
either on their iPads
or looking at phones?
And everybody's checking
texts and Instagram
and all social media.
All of that is leaving
us feeling so empty.
And what we're doing
is reaching for things,
whether it's material things,
or food, or anything else
to try and fill up these holes.
Because we're lacking presence,
and we're lacking connection,
and we're lacking the sense
that we actually matter.
>> Now you sound
like a preacher.
So I know you've got a
Catholic upbringing, as have I.
And I've since branched off
into other more esoteric things
in order to delve deeper into
what the hell's going on.
But it's all the same really.
So you brought up an
interesting point there,
that we're lacking the
sense of connection to self.
We're lacking the
sense of connection
to the greater self,
which is really
mother nature and the
community, the universe.
How do people get that back?
And how important is it to
have that connection in terms
of being aligned with
what you're here to do.
Having a connection
to ourselves,
having a connection
to other humans,
and having a
connection to nature
is paramount to
discovering why you're here
and living a joyful
and fulfilled life.
We have so much happening, so
much wisdom in these bodies.
All of our intuition
lives in there.
All of our creativity
lives in our body.
And if we deaden it because
we're living from the neck up,
and we're constantly
just in these screens,
we're missing out on
the joy, and the beauty,
and the passion, and the energy
of what this life is about.
So part of what we need to
do is understand that we're
in control, not these phones.
And I think we need a bit of a
wake-up call to recognize that,
when it comes to apps, when
it comes to social media, when
it comes to many of the things
that we are volunteering
our time and our life away
through, that we are not
the client of these apps.
We are the product.
The more of our
time and attention
that we spend, their
stock prices go up.
So it's not in our
best interest to think
that they're serving us.
We actually have to turn
these things off and get back
to basics.
I think that when
people start to actually
move their bodies
more, whether it's
through dance,
through working out,
through yoga, whatever
it is that turns them on,
that's when you open up
that channel of creativity.
That's where you tap
into your internal wisdom
about what you should
do next, about how
to solve that thorny problem,
whether it's in your marriage,
or with your kids,
or with a co-worker.
That's when you start to get
back into control of your life
and start to feel that energy
that you need to really live
into your purpose and make
the difference that you
were born to make.
>> Probably the best grab
you've ever given in your life.
I think that was awesome.
[LAUGHS] That was really good.
That was really amazing.
Wow.
Well, break this down
practically for me.
Marie, what do you
do personally to try
to keep that sense of body
intuition with yourself?
Is it like, you wake up and
try to be still or think
about what I want
to manifest today
or the feelings I want to have
today, or I write stuff down,
or I always move my body,
or I do breath work?
What's Marie's
practical sort of way
of tapping into that inner
wisdom or that intuition look
like?
So for me, there are a few
things that are non-negotiable.
I know that if
they are not a part
of my regular daily
activity that I'm
going to be falling
off the wagon
and I'm not going to
be feeling so good.
One of those things
is meditation.
So for me, it's TM.
It is so practical, so
transformative, so powerful.
And there is so much science
behind why it transforms us
physiologically,
psychologically, emotionally.
I think there are
hundreds and hundreds
of peer-reviewed research papers
that people can go and Google.
And it's phenomenal.
So meditation for
me twice a day.
Also, exercise-- I think it's
one of the most underrated ways
to change your psychology
and your physiology
and your emotional well-being.
Any time that I find myself
really frustrated or anytime
I find myself blocked,
I get into the gym.
Sometimes, it's
taking a spin class.
taking a dance class.
Sometimes, it's
just taking a walk.
But getting out of my head and
getting into my body, again,
opens up this enormous channel
of wisdom that I cannot access
any other way.
So movement at least 15 20
minutes if not an hour a day,
some type of intensity,
that, for me, keeps me sane.
And of course, it's about
what we put in our bodies.
It's about the food that we eat.
I'm Italian-American.
I grew up in New Jersey.
I love pasta like
the next person.
You have no idea.
But I have discovered through
lots of trial and error,
when I eat certain foods,
do I feel alert or not?
Do I feel cranky?
Do I get brain fog?
And I have begun to create
a nutritional lifestyle
for myself where
I'm eating to fuel
my emotional well-being,
and my intelligence,
and my cognition, rather
than my historical past
and what those cravings Are
>> Gorgeous.
I love it.
That's amazing.
Let's talk about intuition.
What the hell is intuition?
And when you say you
listen to your intuition,
it sounds so ethereal.
So how do people know if
something is intuition or fear?
And how would you
describe intuition?
>> So for me, intuition is
just our internal wisdom.
It's this natural knowing
that each of us have
that oftentimes we're
never listening to.
One of the benefits
that I had was,
my mom trained me, ever
since I was little,
to listen to the still,
small voice inside.
And she said you
will always know
the right move to make if you
tap inside and you listen.
There will always be an answer.
So I heard this message
over and over again.
So whenever in my adult life
I'm wondering which way to go,
I get quiet.
And I pay attention to what's
happening on the inside,
whether I actually hear a voice.
Or one of the most useful tests
for me is, I do something,
and I figure out whether or not
I feel expansive or contracted.
So here's what I mean.
A lot of times
people ask me, well,
Marie, how do I know the
difference between fear
and intuition?
Is this something
that I should do,
and maybe I'm just
feeling butterflies,
or is this my intuition saying,
no, don't do that, this is bad?
So here's what you need to do.
You need to imagine yourself
moving ahead with whatever
you're considering.
You start to tap in on a
very subtle level and see,
do you feel yourself
expansive, like everything
is either moving forward or
getting brighter or lighter,
or, on a very subtle level,
is everything contracting,
meaning it feels heavy?
You feel a subtle
sense of dread.
Now, again, we're talking
microscopic levels.
But if you just ask yourself
that question, how do I
feel imagining moving
ahead with this,
and you pay enough
attention, you
will either feel yourself
pulling back or moving forward.
And nine times out
of 10, that's going
to give you the best answer.
So obviously, if it
feels contracted,
or it feels heavy or dread,
that's your intuition
telling you, don't go.
If it still feels
scary, and you're like,
I don't know if I can do
this, but everything feels
like it's coming alive, do it.
That's a yes.
>> It's almost that.
If it feels fun,
it feels exciting,
if you feel drawn to it in a
way without that sense of fear
or contraction, then it's a yes.
>> Absolutely.
And you know, something
can be really uncertain.
You might not be
able to decide, I
don't know if I'll
be able to do this.
I don't know if I'm
good enough to do this.
But it still feels really fun.
That's a clear
sign to go for it.
There's real
opportunity for growth.
And one of the beliefs that
drives my whole life is,
everything is "figure-outtable."
If there's something
that you want to do,
or there's something that
you want to experience,
or something that
you want to change,
you can absolutely
figure it out.
You don't have to
have all of the hows.
You don't have to have
all of the information.
You don't even have to know if
it'll actually turn out right.
But you have to take
that first step.
And I think one of the
other things that can really
help us is an idea that
clarity comes from engagement,
not thought.
So if you have an
inkling that you
might want to pursue
a particular career
or maybe start a business
or try a new path,
you don't have to quit your
job and just go for it.
See if there's a small way that
you can test or experiment.
Can you take a class?
Can you volunteer for a day?
Can you go engage in whatever
that possibility is so that you
can feel from your body
and from the world,
does this feel right?
Is this exciting?
Do I want to keep
going, or was this
just an idea that I'm really
glad that I did this day
or I did this experiment,
but you know what?
I don't want to
change my whole life.
I think, so many times,
we can sit on a couch
and think about how
we want our life
to possibly change, or imagine
starting that business,
or imagine moving to that
place, without realizing
that, if we can just
engage in some small way,
we'll get the information.
We'll feel whether or
not we should move ahead.
And that will inform
our next step.
>> That's cool.
Well, there's two schools
of thought on that.
There's a "take massive action"
thought, which is just like,
screw it, just go for it.
And I've done that
before, and it's fun.
I quite enjoy it.
I love uncertainty.
Anybody that travels with me,
they know that I just dig it.
Where are we staying tonight?
No idea.
Where are we going next?
I don't know.
And I sort of play
with certainty.
Because I have a lot of
certainly in my life, and I
have a lot of uncertainty.
And I sort of play that.
But then you're
saying there's also
this track of, take
some baby steps.
See how it feels.
And start to develop,
is this feeling right?
Is this where I'm going next?
>> I think it's contextual.
For some of us, we have a lot of
responsibilities in our lives.
We have people that
are depending on us.
We have parents that
we're taking care of.
We have children.
We have pets.
We have people that depend
on us for their well-being.
So the idea of just uprooting
everything and making
a huge change might
not be practical.
It might not be responsible.
It might create
more stress that's
not actually conducive to the
change that you want to make.
So if that's the
case, that doesn't
mean that you can't
change your life.
That just means that you
have to be more creative.
You have to find a way to engage
and experiment and test things,
whether it's late at night,
early in the mornings,
on the weekends.
And then you can start
to create change.
Some of us are
built differently.
Some of us do need
to burn the bridges.
Some of us need
to say, that's it.
I'm changing
everything right now.
I think the point
is, there's not one
right way, that if you are that
person who just needs to do it
all in one fell swoop and
that feels most exciting to,
rock on.
But if you're someone who's
a little more risk-averse
and you want to test
things out, don't
think that you're
not going to have
a huge transformation because
you take small steps over time.
And within a year, three
years, five years, or 10 years,
you can have a completely
different existence
and look back and
go, thank goodness
I took that first step.
>> So cool.
And I want to just jump
to some practicality here.
Because one of the big
things that you teach
is tools about how people
can create something online
in a relatively easy way.
I've been 10 years in
internet marketing and that.
And it's brilliant
and super smart.
But it's great for people
that are just like, I'm stuck.
I want to start.
How do I start?
Is it content?
How do I start with copy?
How do I start with this?
So in this particular era
that we live in right now,
Marie, there's so much that
people can do two hours
a night, separate to their job.
Kids are asleep.
Pets are whatever they
do with them-- fed or put
in their little beds.
Then they can do
two hours of work.
What are some real,
practical things
people can do in
this day and age
to start putting their
purpose and mission
and fulfillment projects
out into the world?
>> There's a couple of ways
that I talk about this.
So one of the
things that I think
that we do to stop
ourselves when it comes
to putting our mission
out into the world,
to doing work that really
matters, to changing our life
is, we feel like we have
to have it all figured out
and we have to do some
big, massive change.
But I think what
we fail to realize
is that how we do anything is
almost as important as what
we're doing.
So what do I mean by that?
You can start activating your
purpose in the exact life
that you have right now--
how you're showing up
at the breakfast table,
at your existing job,
how you're engaging with
people at the grocery store,
on the bank line.
You can embody your purpose.
If you want to make a
difference to others,
then start making a difference
with the energy that you bring.
Your attitude is so
incredibly important
in terms of how you
make people feel.
Sometimes, I'll walk
around in this world
and I see people that
will come into my work
and say, oh, but I really
want to empower women,
or I really want to empower
this group of people.
But all day long,
they're complaining.
And there's a lot of
women around them,
and they're not
actually empowering them
through their energy
or their attitude.
So I think one of
the things that's
really important
before getting even
to some of the tactical
things that we can do
is recognizing that every
single moment we're alive,
we are making a difference.
And it's up to us whether
we're living into that purpose
or making that positive
difference or not.
So attitude and energy is
always the first place to look.
Because the 24 hours
you're alive every day are
24 hours that you
have an opportunity
to make a positive difference.
Now, when it comes to
using these pockets of time
to create a business or
to launch a new career,
I think getting really
clear on whatever
it is that you're trying to do
is obviously step number one--
talking about,
what is the vision?
What are we working
towards here?
So you understand how to create
a game plan to reverse engineer
bringing it to life.
When it comes to making
a difference in the world
and using our gift
to create change,
oftentimes, we think we
have to change everything,
and we need a new career, and
we need to start a new business.
But that's not always the truth.
The energy and the
attitude that we
bring to every single
moment of our day counts.
And that energy
and that attitude
can create such a ripple effect.
And it's like the
infamous Gandhi quote.
Be the change that you
want to see in the world.
>> Visualization, Novak used
it, Stig used it, Wynn used it,
imagining what they want to do.
But you were talking
about, there's a plan.
Creating a plan is
almost as important.
>> Absolutely.
Having a vision for what
you want to create is vital.
But I do want to say
that not all of us
can have that crystal clear
vision, especially when we're
starting out and things
are a little murky.
But even if we do
have a vision, I
think what's equally-- if not
more-- important is having
a plan to bring it to life, to
make sure that it's not just
something that you're looking
at on a vision board, that
every single day, you're
executing on effective steps
to bring it to life.
So one of the things
that I do myself
that I advise anyone
who wants to bring
a big vision alive to do is
take four to five minutes
at the end of your day and
write down exactly what you're
going to do the following day--
looking at your appointments,
looking at any special projects
that you know must get done
to bring that vision to life,
and even mapping out
things like working out,
meditation time,
any of the self-care
practices that you
know that you need
to do in order to be your best.
It sounds so simple, but
so many people don't do it.
They don't go, OK,
well, you know what?
If I really do want to
fit in that meditation,
or that 15-minute workout,
or 10 minutes of prayer,
and I need to feed the kids,
and I need to walk the dog,
then I'm going to need
to wake up, whether it's
5:30 or 6:00 or 7:00 AM.
If I need to get x amount of
writing done to eventually get
my book done, I need to
block out this chunk of time.
Taking four to five minutes
to do that the night before
has such an extraordinarily
transformative effect.
And here's the second piece.
I like to say, if it's not
scheduled, it's not real--
so popping all of those
different tasks with time
estimates into your calendar
and-- here's the piece that
most people miss--
where you're going to do it.
So studies have shown that you
can increase from two to three
times the likelihood
that you will actually
complete a task if you not only
say when you're going to do it,
but the physical place.
Is this going to happen
at your kitchen table?
Are you going to work out at
the gym or in your bedroom?
Are you going to actually
create that business plan
at the library?
So a few little steps
like that every single day
can help you actually take that
vision and concretely put it
into life.
>> Brilliant.
So practical.
So Marie, really.
Let's be honest.
So pragmatic Marie.
One thing I think
that's a little bit open
is, you touched on TM.
Gabby touched on TM.
But they just
quickly said, well,
it's mantra-based meditation.
What is TM and how can
people relate to that?
Or do you suggest that they
also look for other forms of it?
>> I first learned about
meditation when I was 17 from
my yoga teacher.
And it was really exciting,
because I had never
heard about anything
like that before.
And she was actually teaching
the entire class based on
Deepak Chopra's "Seven
Spiritual Laws of Success."
And it was one of
my gateway drugs
into the world of
personal development
and into the world of
personal transformation.
It was really exciting.
And I learned a very
simple technique.
And it was just about
sitting for 20 minutes.
And she shared a mantra with me.
And it was really effective.
And it has served me
for 20 years of my life.
And more recently, I went
through the TM meditation
training.
And what I loved about this
is, it felt like an evolution
for me.
And I know so many people
that meditate, from sports
stars to high performers
on every level.
And everyone has their own
flavor and their own style.
Some people, it's a
form of visualization.
And some people, it's just
a form of concentration.
And what I think is interesting
about TM, especially for me,
is, there's a focus
on effortlessness.
And as a human being
who is very driven,
who is very type A, who
works and puts effort
into everything, it's a really
wonderful counterbalance.
And I also loved that
it's not necessarily
attached to any
particular religion
and that it's really
open for all of us.
And so this idea that
there is a specific,
very simple technique,
and, really,
from what I have learned, the
only way you can do it wrong is
if you try and put in effort, I
found that this particular type
of meditation really worked for
me as a great counterbalance,
so that I can use all of my type
A, driven, "get-it-done-ness"
in the rest of my life, and have
this really beautiful, simple,
straightforward practice to help
me dip down into this infinite
intelligence, this cosmic
consciousness that I think many
of us have experienced or felt
at different times in our life,
whether we're with a loved one,
or we're witnessing the beauty
of a flower,
or even in profound
sadness, when
we feel this level
of connection,
of oneness with
everyone and everything.
And the reason I
appreciate TM so much
is, it gives me an
opportunity twice a day
to reconnect with that
space in a way that
is simple and effortless.
And when I come out
of my meditation,
I find myself feeling a
level of energy and charge
that, frankly, I haven't
been able to access
through any other method.
>> Magical.
And I'm going to ask you a
very random question here.
When that happens, do you
not fear death anymore?
And through not fearing
death, how does that change
how you show up in the world?
>> Yeah.
So death is something that I
actually contemplate a lot.
I have always been fascinated
with end-of-life studies
and with understanding
that so many people that
have passed before us
have been generous enough
to give us wisdom.
One of my favorite books is by
Bronnie Ware, "The Five Regrets
of the Dying."
And the number one regret over
hundreds of beautiful souls
that she's helped pass to
the other side, it was this.
I wish I had lived a life true
to myself and not the life
that others had expected of me.
And I feel, like when it
comes to understanding
that each of us have a
gift, that we were put
on this Earth for a
reason, that there never
will be another one
of us, understanding
that now is the time to
take whatever it is--
our passions, our
quirks, and our visions--
and bring them out
into the world,
because we will
never be here again.
And so this idea
of understanding
that we're going to die, I
think it's quite liberating.
Because we all know
we're on a train heading
to the same destination.
There's no mystery about that.
And if we look at that
as something exciting,
that we have this
limited amount of time,
we're here to express our
joy, to express our love,
to make a difference, to
contribute to others, all
of a sudden, it becomes less
something to fear and more
of something that's this
motivating, inspiring truth.
So the other thing about
realizing that we are all
going to die, what is
kind of cool about that
is recognizing that
everything in life
is about what we make of it.
And we're here to have joy.
In 100 years, who's
going to care?
So if we want to spend five
years learning to dance
and doing whatever the
heck we want to do,
if that brings us joy and
it brings more good energy
in the planet, so be it.
I think understanding
that death is coming,
that it's coming for
all of us, it also
allows us to be a little
more light-hearted, to not
take things so damn seriously.
Again, in 100 years, we're
all going to be powder.
Does it really matter?
Is anyone really
thinking about us?
Oh, I'm just so not
good enough, or I don't
know if I could do x, y, or z.
It's like, do it!
Just do it!
In 100 years, no one's
even going to know,
so you might as well have
a party while you're here.
>> Absolutely.
I love that.
I love it.
And I think that there's
a point in your life
where you start to realize that.
And when you do realize it,
it's like everything changes.
You're like, whoa,
I could be a weirdo?
That's cool.
It's exciting.
>> One of the ideas that
continues to drive me is
something that I've believed
since I was little, which is,
every single person on the
planet comes here with a set
of unique gifts and talents
that only they can express.
And part of the adventure
and the journey of life
is discovering what those
are and then sharing them
with others.
And this idea that
there never has been
and there never will
be another you, so you
are a one-time mega-event
in the damn universe,
and if you don't share
your gifts with people
on this planet right now,
that you are stealing
from those who need you most.
And that's a really
big wake-up call.
Because when you
recognize that you really
are a one-time mega-event
in the universe,
holding back isn't
doing anyone any good.
It's keeping you in this space
that's small and limited.
It's keeping other
people from experiencing
your joy, or your
talents, or what
you're able to
contribute to the world.
Everything gets better when
you take on that perspective
and you let that supercharge
your actions, your intentions,
and everything that
you're here to give.
>> So cool.
I love that.
What's the secret in finding
lasting fulfillment in life?
>> I think one of the best
reference points for lasting
fulfillment actually comes from
Victor Frankl and "Man's Search
for Meaning."
So the way that he describes
it is really beautiful,
that there's three avenues to
finding lasting fulfillment.
And really, the trick here
is, it's not about finding it.
It's really about creating it.
So avenue number one is having
some type of work or deed.
So he shares this really
incredible story in his book
where, when he was
captured by the Nazis,
he actually had a
manuscript for his next book
in his coat pocket, and
they took that from him.
And part of what
helped him survive
that horrific experience
was finding scraps of paper
so that he could
reconstruct his manuscript.
That helped him stay focused
on what he was here to give,
which helped him
survive and then thrive.
The second avenue was about
finding and experiencing
beauty and joy and love.
So one of the ways that he did
that throughout that experience
was imagining his wife and
feeling the love from her
in his heart, even
through his imagination.
There was one story where he
was traveling on the train,
and everyone was
huddled together,
and they were behind
bars, but they
caught a glimpse of a sunset.
And in that moment, it
brought them this sense
of joy and fulfillment,
despite the most devastating
circumstances.
And then the final
avenue, which I
think is something
that is really
a cornerstone of his work,
and it's something that
can help all of us, was
finding and creating
a way to have
meaning when there is
suffering that is inevitable.
And I think, for all of us,
there are points in our lives
where we will bump up against
suffering that is inevitable.
And to be able to extract
and create and share
meaning from that, that is a
beautiful framework for finding
and creating
lasting fulfillment.
With fulfillment and meaning,
it really is a choice.
It's a choice that we get
to make in each moment.
What are we going
to make this mean?
How are we going
to choose to have
this event, this circumstance,
this moment be joyous?
Are we going to be sitting
back in our energy going,
I wish this was different?
There's no way it can be
different, so that's useless.
Or are we going to engage
with our full enthusiasm
and our joy?
Are we going to show
up in each moment
like we're really
meant to be there?
And when we do that and
train ourselves to do that
consistently, all of a sudden,
joy and meaning and fulfillment
becomes a habit.
It becomes a way of living.
It becomes a way that we engage
with the world around us.
So it's less of something
that we're looking for
and it's more of
something that we
bring to everywhere we show up.
>> Then people want to
hang out with you, right?
>> Yes!
>> Because they're like,
this person is cool.
Why are they always cool?
Even when shit happens,
they find a way.
They find a meaning in it.
So how can people--
this is the last question here--
if they currently feel
lost, uncover their purpose
and create the impact and legacy
that they're meant to leave?
>> So I think when any
of us are feeling lost,
we're feeling stuck,
we're feeling like, gosh,
nothing's working right now, I
think one of the best things we
can do-- and it's so
counterintuitive-- is,
we have to celebrate.
We have to celebrate the fact
that we're in a tough spot.
Why?
Because we're about to have
some kind of breakthrough.
Something in our
life is not working
and we've gotten
ourselves to the point
that we're willing
to take action
to do something about it.
So that means changes
on the horizon.
So again, I know it's a
little counterintuitive,
but please, take a
minute to celebrate.
Because something's off
track, and you're going
to get it right back on track.
The next thing we've got to
do is start where we are.
Oftentimes, we think we
have to change everything.
But really, what we have
to change is our attitude
and how we're showing up.
So can you start with
the little things?
In the morning, can
you make your bed
with enthusiasm and passion?
Can you be the best
damn bed-maker ever?
Can you brush your teeth
like you really mean it?
Can you start talking
with your family
like they're the
best family ever?
Can you show up at
work and actually
give your excellence and your
best and your heart and soul?
Can you go into
that grocery store?
Can you put a smile
on somebody's face?
I know these things may
sound trite or insignificant,
but they're not.
Because you can't be miserable
throughout your whole day,
80%, 90% of your day,
complaining, stuck,
nothing's working--
[GRUNTING] --and then expect
to have some big breakthrough.
Whereas if you practice
in the small moments,
I'm going to show up and I'm
going to look for some answers,
I'm going to show
up and I am going
to be this person who is open to
new ideas, I'm going to show up
and I'm actually going to put
a smile on someone else's face,
I'm going to take the
attention off myself
and how I might
think that there's
something wrong with me, in that
putting my attention on someone
else, I might actually
discover new answers
or new possibilities.
So I think when
we're stuck, I think
when we're finding
ourselves in a bit of pain
or we're feeling like nothing's
working, first, to celebrate,
and then to start changing
how we're showing up
in the micro-moments can create
a big trajectory of change.
>> So awesome.
One of the things I do-- and
Matt will testify to this--
is, I'll walk into the
office in the morning.
It's all glass, open,
this whole thing.
I walk in and
everyone will see me.
And I'm like--
[GASPS] --oh, my god,
I'm so shocked, in
a really scary tone.
They're like, what do you mean?
I'll be like, I'm alive!
Can you believe this?
Oh, my god!
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Then they start cracking up.
And I go and kiss
and hug everybody
in the office every morning.
I hug the guys, kiss
and hug the women.
Because I saw a French train
conductor do this amidst chaos.
There was this
line up everywhere.
People were waiting.
They were going to miss
trains, everything.
And this guy came in.
It was a station conductor, 36
years old, with the epaulets.
And the people serving the
counters were in their 60's.
And he stopped and
he acknowledged them.
He's like, bonjour.
Ca va?
[KISSES] Tres bien.
He just took a moment to
connect amidst all this crap.
And there's always so much
in life that's going on.
But just taking that moment
to connect or be grateful
can transform your
experience of life.
And if you do that, then
everything else changes.
Can you speak to
gratitude for a minute?
Because I know when I asked a
lot of people about happiness,
they're like, be grateful for
the fact that you've even got
shoes.
That changes your
whole perspective.
How important is it to
cultivate a sense of gratitude
when you're a businessperson.
Because shit's going to
go wrong all the time.
It goes wrong as much
as it goes right.
But how do you show
up with gratitude?
Or even in your day to
day life, how important
is cultivating gratitude?
>> I think gratitude
is everything,
because it speaks
to perspective.
Gratitude allows us to really
take stock of everything that's
going right.
At any given moment, you
can focus on what's working
or what's not.
And gratitude starts
to create this habit
of looking for what's
going right right now.
And oftentimes, when we're
in the toughest spots,
that's when we need
to get down to basics.
Am I breathing?
Do I have a roof over my head?
Is there some semblance of
food in my refrigerator?
Is there anyone that
I could potentially
call to connect with?
Is there water coming
out of my faucet?
Realizing that for billions
of our other humans,
the answer is likely no.
And so if you can say yes
to any of those things,
you have to have
a reality check.
You have to be humble.
You have to recognize that
you are so much better off
than literally billions of
our brothers and sisters
around the world who
deserve that dignity.
So having a sense of gratitude
for the basic stuff right now
can instantly shift
your perspective.
It can shift your energy.
And it can get you
in a space where
you can turn things around.
>> Awesome.
I want to finish on one more
question, unless there's
anything specific
you want to cover.
I think you're pretty happy.
I'm pretty happy.
I'm very happy.
So let's finish with
this last question.
We're out in the back.
We're backstage.
You're doing your power move.
I'm giving you little
karate chops in your back.
[LAUGHS] And you're
about to step out.
And out there is
the world's media.
Everyone's listening.
It's being broadcast
in every language.
And it's Marie's opportunity to
leave her two to three minutes
of wisdom with the world and
leave a message for people that
is really, up to where you are
right now, the sum of the work
that you've done in order to
be able to help activate people
and activate their genius.
What message would
you give to them?
>> It's remembering, really,
that there never has been
and there never
will be another you.
God doesn't make any extra
people just for the heck of it.
So to understand what
a miracle you are
on this Earth in this
moment right now,
and to be able to use your
heart, and your skills,
and your perspective,
and your unique story
to connect with other
humans and to make
a difference in their life,
that's all you're here to do.
And it doesn't have to
be a grand expression.
You don't have to
be a billionaire.
change anything.
You just have to show up
and be willing to show up
every single day and realize
that you do make a difference.
And the difference that
you make is up to you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]